docs/visualization/filter/lttng_event_filter.md, before:

# Usage of LTTngEventFilter

CARET can handle measurements and analysis up to several minutes. Memory usage, analysis time, and visualization time, etc., will be issues when leveraging measurement results of longer duration.

Therefore, CARET has an API (LTTngEventFilter) to omit unnecessary measurement results when reading LTTng.  
This section describes how to use the LTTngEventFilter.

LTTngEventFilter has the following filters

- init_pass_filter
- duration_filter
- strip_filter

## API Description

```python
LttngEventFilter.init_pass_filter()
```

- Filter the trace points at initialization

```python
LttngEventFilter.duration_filter(duration_s: float, offset_s: float)
```

- [duration_s] : Measure duration
- [offset_s] : Ignore seconds from start

```python
LttngEventFilter.strip_filter(lsplit_s: Optional[float], rsplit_s: Optional[float])
```

- Ignore measurement results for [lsplit_s] from the start of the measurement
- Ignore measurement results for [rsplit_s] seconds before measurement ends

## Use cases

```python
from caret_analyze import Lttng, LttngEventFilter

lttng = Lttng('/path/to/ctf', event_filters=[
  LttngEventFilter.duration_filter(10, 5)
]) # Filtering for 10 from 5 seconds
```

Multiple event_filters can be specified.

Commit message:

docs: fix documents for time-series visualization API (#131)
* docs: fix documents for time-series visualization API

Signed-off-by: atsushi421 <a.yano.578@ms.saitama-u.ac.jp>

* ci(pre-commit): autofix

* docs: pass pre-commit.ci

Signed-off-by: atsushi421 <a.yano.578@ms.saitama-u.ac.jp>

* ci(pre-commit): autofix

* docs: fix old interface

Signed-off-by: atsushi421 <a.yano.578@ms.saitama-u.ac.jp>

* docs(visualization): fixed index.md

Signed-off-by: Takayuki AKAMINE <takayuki.akamine@tier4.jp>

* docs(visualization): improved documents.

Signed-off-by: Takayuki AKAMINE <takayuki.akamine@tier4.jp>

* docs(visualization): updated for reviewers comment.

Signed-off-by: Takayuki AKAMINE <takayuki.akamine@tier4.jp>

* ci(pre-commit): autofix

Signed-off-by: atsushi421 <a.yano.578@ms.saitama-u.ac.jp>
Signed-off-by: Takayuki AKAMINE <takayuki.akamine@tier4.jp>
Co-authored-by: pre-commit-ci[bot] <66853113+pre-commit-ci[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Takayuki AKAMINE <takayuki.akamine@tier4.jp>

docs/visualization/filter/lttng_event_filter.md, after:

# LTTngEventFilter

CARET is able to analyze data recorded for several minutes. When analyzing large data with CARET, both memory and time consumed for analysis will be critical issue.

In order not to load unnecessary data, CARET has `LTTngEventFilter` to exclude selected data from loading data.

`LTTngEventFilter` has the following methods.

- `init_pass_filter`
- `duration_filter`
- `strip_filter`

## `init_pass_filter`

With `init_pass_filter` method, events recorded by runtime tracepoints are not loaded onto memory.

```python
LttngEventFilter.init_pass_filter()
```

## `duration_filter`

With `duration_filter` method, you can crop data with targeting time range of recorded data.

```python
LttngEventFilter.duration_filter(duration_s: float, offset_s: float)
```

`duration_filter` method has following two arguments.

- `duration_s` is duration of target time range
- `offset_s` is point of target time range

## `strip_filter`

With `strip_filter` method, you can crop data with targeting time range of recorded data as well as `duration_filter`. `strip_filter` has different arguments from `duration_filter`.

```python
LttngEventFilter.strip_filter(lsplit_s: Optional[float], rsplit_s: Optional[float])
```

`strip_filter` method has following two optional arguments. If you omit either or both of them, default value '0' is given to the optional argument.

- `lstrip_s` is start time of cropping range
- `rstrip_s` is end point of cropping range

## Sample code

A sample code, where `duration_filter` is used, is given as below.

```python
from caret_analyze import Lttng, LttngEventFilter

lttng = Lttng('/path/to/ctf', event_filters=[
  LttngEventFilter.duration_filter(10, 5)
]) # Filtering for 10 from 5 seconds
```

If you want to add another filter, append it to `event_filters` list.
