docs/visualization/path/message_flow.md, before:

# Message flow

The function `message_flow()` can visualizes message dependencies throughout the system.
You can confirm latency of the target path.

```python
from caret_analyze.plot import message_flow
from caret_analyze import Application, Architecture, Lttng
from bokeh.plotting import output_notebook, figure, show
output_notebook()

arch = Architecture('yaml', '/path/to/architecture_file')
lttng = Lttng('/path/to/trace_data')
app = Application(arch, lttng)
path = app.get_path('target_path')

message_flow(path, granularity='node', lstrip_s=1, rstrip_s=1)
```

![message_flow](../../imgs/message_flow_sample.png)

The horizontal axis means `Time [s]`.
The vertical axis means the target path to measure the latency.
Each colored line represents message dependencies for each message. The gray rectangular areas indicate the callback execution time.

The function `message_flow()` has following arguments.

- `granularity`
  - Change the granularity of visualization in ['raw', 'node']
- `lstrip_s` and `rstrip_s`
  - Extract the focusing points by removing unnecessary data
  - `lstrip_s=1` means that the data for 1 second from trace start is removed.
  - `rstrip_s=1` means that the data for 1 second from trace end is removed.
- `use_sim_time`
  - Bool whether using simulation time (`False` by default)

In addition to the basic operations of bokeh, the message flow diagram allows the following operations

- Scale adjustment of xaxis/yaxis
  - Scale adjustments can be made only on the X-axis or only on the Y-axis by operating the wheel on the axis labels.
- View detailed information
  - Move the cursor over the lines in the message flow or the gray rectangular areas can see the detail information of the callback and message.

Commit message:

docs: finished improving visualization chapter.
Signed-off-by: Takayuki AKAMINE <takayuki.akamine@tier4.jp>

docs/visualization/path/message_flow.md, after:

# Message flow

`message_flow()` function visualizes how input messages are received to nodes and output messages are transmitted to next nodes. You can confirm bottleneck of response in your application.

```python
from caret_analyze.plot import message_flow
from caret_analyze import Application, Architecture, Lttng
from bokeh.plotting import output_notebook, figure, show
output_notebook()

arch = Architecture('yaml', '/path/to/architecture_file')
lttng = Lttng('/path/to/trace_data')
app = Application(arch, lttng)
path = app.get_path('target_path')

message_flow(path, granularity='node', lstrip_s=1, rstrip_s=1)
```

![message_flow](../../imgs/message_flow_sample.png)

The horizontal axis means time, labeled as `Time [s]`.
The vertical axis lists names of nodes and topics in a target path. A colored line is corresponded to an input message and represents its propagation. With tracing a colored line, you can find when a message input is processed in a certain node.
Gray rectangles indicate callback executions.

`message_flow()` function has following arguments.

- `granularity` is served to adjusts granularity of chain with two value; `raw` and `node`
  - With `raw`, callback-level message flow is generated
  - With `node`, node-level message flow is generated
- `lstrip_s` is float value for selecting start time of cropping time range
- `rstrip_s=1` is float value for selecting end time of cropping time range
- `use_sim_time` is boolean value for mapping simulation time on a horizontal axis

Message flow diagram allows the following operations.

- Scrolling upper or lower on x-axis for scaling up or down on horizontal direction
- Scrolling upper or lower on y-axis for scaling up or down on vertical direction
- Scrolling upper of lower on a graph for scaling up or down on both horizontal and vertical direction
- Hovering over a line in message flow or a gray rectangle give you details
