docs/visualization/path/response_time.md, before:

# Plot Response Time

Response Time is visualized in Histogram and there are 3 cases ([default, best, worst]) as described in [Here](../../faq/index.md#how-response-time-is-calculated).
This document describes sample visualization scripts for Response Time.
In each case, the horizontal axis means `Response Time [ms]` and the vertical axis means `Probability`.
This API is used to confirm how long the response time is.

```python
from caret_analyze.plot import Plot
from caret_analyze import Application, Architecture, Lttng
from bokeh.plotting import output_notebook, figure, show
output_notebook()

arch = Architecture('yaml', '/path/to/architecture_file')
lttng = Lttng('/path/to/trace_data')
app = Application(arch, lttng)
path = app.get_path('target_path')

# plot default case
plot = Plot.create_response_time_histogram_plot(path)
plot.show()
```

<prettier-ignore-start>
!!!info
    The `output_notebook()` is needed to show figures inside Jupyter Notebook.
<prettier-ignore-end>

![response_time_default_histogram](../../imgs/response_time_default_histogram.png)

```python
# plot best case
plot = Plot.create_response_time_histogram_plot(path, case='best')
plot.show()
```

![response_time_best_histogram](../../imgs/response_time_best_histogram.png)

```python
# plot worst case
plot = Plot.create_response_time_histogram_plot(path, case='worst')
plot.show()
```

![response_time_worst_histogram](../../imgs/response_time_worst_histogram.png)

Commit message:

docs: fix documents for time-series visualization API (#131)
* docs: fix documents for time-series visualization API

Signed-off-by: atsushi421 <a.yano.578@ms.saitama-u.ac.jp>

* ci(pre-commit): autofix

* docs: pass pre-commit.ci

Signed-off-by: atsushi421 <a.yano.578@ms.saitama-u.ac.jp>

* ci(pre-commit): autofix

* docs: fix old interface

Signed-off-by: atsushi421 <a.yano.578@ms.saitama-u.ac.jp>

* docs(visualization): fixed index.md

Signed-off-by: Takayuki AKAMINE <takayuki.akamine@tier4.jp>

* docs(visualization): improved documents.

Signed-off-by: Takayuki AKAMINE <takayuki.akamine@tier4.jp>

* docs(visualization): updated for reviewers comment.

Signed-off-by: Takayuki AKAMINE <takayuki.akamine@tier4.jp>

* ci(pre-commit): autofix

Signed-off-by: atsushi421 <a.yano.578@ms.saitama-u.ac.jp>
Signed-off-by: Takayuki AKAMINE <takayuki.akamine@tier4.jp>
Co-authored-by: pre-commit-ci[bot] <66853113+pre-commit-ci[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Takayuki AKAMINE <takayuki.akamine@tier4.jp>

docs/visualization/path/response_time.md, after:

# Response Time

In context of CARET, response time is defined how much of time costs from a message input to message output from a targeted path. Please refer to [FAQ](../../faq/index.md#how-response-time-is-calculated) if you are interested in response time defined in CARET.

Three cases of response time is defined CARET; `best-to-worst`, `best`, and `worst`. With `best` case, CARET samples shortest time elapsed in a targeted path. With `worst` case, the previous message input timing is taken into account. `best-to-worst` case includes most of all cases between `best` and `worst`.
This section shows three sample scripts for response time. They generate histograms respectively. Horizontal axis of the histograms means response time, labeled `Response Time [ms]` and vertical axis of the histograms means `Probability`.

```python
from caret_analyze.plot import Plot
from caret_analyze import Application, Architecture, Lttng
from bokeh.plotting import output_notebook, figure, show
output_notebook()

arch = Architecture('yaml', '/path/to/architecture_file')
lttng = Lttng('/path/to/trace_data')
app = Application(arch, lttng)
path = app.get_path('target_path')

# plot best-to-worst case
plot = Plot.create_response_time_histogram_plot(path)
plot.show()
```

<prettier-ignore-start>
!!!info
    The `output_notebook()` is needed to show figures inside Jupyter Notebook.
<prettier-ignore-end>

![response_time_default_histogram](../../imgs/response_time_default_histogram.png)

```python
# plot best case
plot = Plot.create_response_time_histogram_plot(path, case='best')
plot.show()
```

![response_time_best_histogram](../../imgs/response_time_best_histogram.png)

```python
# plot worst case
plot = Plot.create_response_time_histogram_plot(path, case='worst')
plot.show()
```

![response_time_worst_histogram](../../imgs/response_time_worst_histogram.png)
