docs/design/latency_definitions/communication.md, before:

# Communication

The communication latency is the time difference between the time the message is passed from the ownership of the callback to the next callback.

$$
l_{comm} = t_{receive} - t_{transfer}
$$

In particular, if transfer of ownership is publish and receive of ownership is subscribe, it is defined as follows

$$
l_{comm} = t_{sub} - t_{pub}
$$

<prettier-ignore-start>
!!! Info
        In this definition, communication latency is now affected by scheduling.
        It is not only the communication latency of the DDS.
        If multiple callbacks can be executed at the same time, it may include the execution time of other callbacks.
        For more information on scheduling, see [Latency Definition | Overview](. /latency_definitions/index.md#detailed-sequence).
<prettier-ignore-end>

<prettier-ignore-start>
!!! Info
        You may think that the definition of communication latency is complicated.
        The reason for defining it based on callback ownership is that this same definition will apply to future latency calculations involving tf.
        Even when CARET supports latency where information is exchanged other than publish-subscribe, the responsibility of the node developer is the node and the callback is the implementation.
        In order to provide latency based on the scope of responsibility, CARET uses this definition.
<prettier-ignore-end>

ROS communication is performed by the subscription side for intra-process communication and inter-process communication.
Since ROS communication is capable of many-to-many communication, there are cases where both intra-process and inter-process communication are performed in a single publish.
In CARET, communication is divided into 1:1 pairs and latency is calculated.

## Intra process communication

A simplified sequence diagram focusing only on the relevant data flow is shown below.

```plantuml
@startuml

participant "UserCode\n(Publisher Side)" as Callback
participant "rclcpp\n (Publisher/Subscription)" as Rclcpp
participant "rclcpp\n (Buffer)" as Buffer
participant rcl
participant LTTng

== Publisher ==

-> Callback
activate Callback

Callback -> Rclcpp : publish
activate Rclcpp
Rclcpp -> LTTng : intra process publish

Rclcpp -> Buffer : enqueue
activate Buffer
Rclcpp -> rcl : notify
deactivate Rclcpp
activate rcl

deactivate Callback

== Subscription ==

rcl -> Rclcpp : dispatch
deactivate rcl
activate Rclcpp

Rclcpp -> Buffer : take
Buffer -> Rclcpp: dequeue
deactivate Buffer
Rclcpp -> LTTng: dispatch_intra_subscription_callback
Rclcpp -> LTTng : callback start
Rclcpp -> Callback : execute callback

activate Callback
@enduml
```

`to_dataframe` API returns following columns.

| Column                   | Type        | Description             |
| ------------------------ | ----------- | ----------------------- |
| rclcpp_publish_timestamp | System time | Publish time in rclcpp. |
| callback_start_timestamp | System time | Callback start time     |

See also

- [Trace points | rclcpp_intra_publish](../trace_points/runtime_trace_points.md#ros2rclcpp_intra_publish)
- [Trace points | dispatch_intra_process_subscription_callback](../trace_points/runtime_trace_points.md#ros2dispatch_intra_process_subscription_callback)
- [Trace points | callback start](../trace_points/runtime_trace_points.md#ros2callback_start)
- [Trace points | message_construct](../trace_points/runtime_trace_points.md#ros2message_construct)
- [RuntimeDataProvider API](https://tier4.github.io/CARET_analyze/latest/infra/#caret_analyze.infra.lttng.lttng.Lttng.compose_intra_proc_comm_records)

## Inter process communication

A simplified sequence diagram focusing only on the relevant data flow is shown below.

```plantuml
@startuml
title: Definition of major tracepoints

participant UserCode
participant ROS2
participant DDS
participant LTTng

== Publisher Side ==


activate ROS2
activate UserCode
UserCode -> ROS2: publish()
activate ROS2
ROS2 -> LTTng: [rclcpp_publish]


ROS2 -> DDS: dds_write()
deactivate ROS2
activate DDS
DDS -> LTTng: [dds_write]
DDS -> LTTng: [dds_bind_addr_to_stamp]

UserCode -> ROS2 : callback_end
deactivate UserCode
deactivate ROS2


== Subscription Side ==


DDS -> ROS2: <notify> on_data_available
activate ROS2

ROS2 -> DDS :  take messages
DDS -> ROS2
deactivate DDS
ROS2 -> LTTng: [dispatch_subscription_callback]
ROS2 -> LTTng: [callback_start]
ROS2 -> UserCode: callback start
activate UserCode
UserCode -> ROS2: callback end
deactivate UserCode

deactivate ROS2
@enduml
```

`to_dataframe` API returns following columns.

| Column                   | Type        | Description             |
| ------------------------ | ----------- | ----------------------- |
| rclcpp_publish_timestamp | System time | Publish time in rclcpp. |
| rcl_publish_timestamp    | System time | Publish time in rcl.    |
| dds_write_timestamp      | System time | Publish time in rmw.    |
| callback_start_timestamp | System time | Callback start time.    |

See also

- [Trace points | message_construct](../trace_points/runtime_trace_points.md#ros2message_construct)
- [Trace points | rclcpp_publish](../trace_points/runtime_trace_points.md#ros2rclcpp_publish)
- [Trace points | rcl_publish](../trace_points/runtime_trace_points.md#ros2rcl_publish)
- [Trace points | dds_write](../trace_points/runtime_trace_points.md#ros2_caretdds_write)
- [Trace points | bind_addr_to_addr](../trace_points/runtime_trace_points.md#ros2_caretdds_bind_addr_to_addr)
- [Trace points | bind_addr_to_stamp](../trace_points/runtime_trace_points.md#ros2_caretdds_bind_addr_to_stamp)
- [Trace points | callback start](../trace_points/runtime_trace_points.md#ros2callback_start)
- [Trace points | dispatch_subscription_callback](../trace_points/runtime_trace_points.md#ros2dispatch_subscription_callback)
- [RuntimeDataProvider API](https://tier4.github.io/CARET_analyze/latest/infra/#caret_analyze.infra.lttng.lttng.Lttng.compose_inter_proc_comm_records)

Commit message:

address comments inlatency_definitions/communication.md
Signed-off-by: hsgwa <19860128+hsgwa@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/design/latency_definitions/communication.md, after:

# Communication

Communication latency is an expression of how much time it takes for a topic message to travel from source callback to next callback.

$$
l_{comm} = t_{sub} - t_{pub}
$$

<prettier-ignore-start>
!!! Info
        In this definition, communication latency is affected by the scheduling of callbacks, and includes not only the communication latency of the DDS, but also the delay due to scheduling.
        For example, if multiple callbacks are dispatched simultaneously, the communication latency may include the execution time of other callbacks.
        For more information on scheduling, see [latency_definitions | overview](../index.md#detailed-sequence).
<prettier-ignore-end>


ROS communication is performed by the subscription side for intra-process communication and inter-process communication.
Since ROS communication is capable of many-to-many communication, there are cases where both intra-process and inter-process communication are performed in a single publish.
In CARET, communication is divided into 1:1 pairs and latency is calculated.

## Intra process communication

A simplified sequence diagram focusing only on the relevant data flow is shown below.

```plantuml
@startuml

participant "UserCode\n(Publisher Side)" as Callback
participant "rclcpp\n (Publisher/Subscription)" as Rclcpp
participant "rclcpp\n (Buffer)" as Buffer
participant rcl
participant LTTng

== Publisher ==

-> Callback
activate Callback

Callback -> Rclcpp : publish
activate Rclcpp
Rclcpp -> LTTng : intra process publish

Rclcpp -> Buffer : enqueue
activate Buffer
Rclcpp -> rcl : notify
deactivate Rclcpp
activate rcl

deactivate Callback

== Subscription ==

rcl -> Rclcpp : dispatch
deactivate rcl
activate Rclcpp

Rclcpp -> Buffer : take
Buffer -> Rclcpp: dequeue
deactivate Buffer
Rclcpp -> LTTng: sample dispatch_intra_subscription_callback
Rclcpp -> LTTng : sample callback_start
Rclcpp -> Callback : callback start

activate Callback
@enduml
```

`to_dataframe` API returns following columns.

| Column                   | Type        | Description             |
| ------------------------ | ----------- | ----------------------- |
| rclcpp_publish_timestamp | System time | Publish time in rclcpp. |
| callback_start_timestamp | System time | Callback start time     |

See also

- [Trace points | rclcpp_intra_publish](../trace_points/runtime_trace_points.md#ros2rclcpp_intra_publish)
- [Trace points | dispatch_intra_process_subscription_callback](../trace_points/runtime_trace_points.md#ros2dispatch_intra_process_subscription_callback)
- [Trace points | callback start](../trace_points/runtime_trace_points.md#ros2callback_start)
- [Trace points | message_construct](../trace_points/runtime_trace_points.md#ros2message_construct)
- [RuntimeDataProvider API](https://tier4.github.io/CARET_analyze/latest/infra/#caret_analyze.infra.lttng.lttng.Lttng.compose_intra_proc_comm_records)

## Inter process communication

A simplified sequence diagram focusing only on the relevant data flow is shown below.

```plantuml
@startuml
title: Definition of major tracepoints

participant UserCode
participant ROS2
participant DDS
participant LTTng

== Publisher Side ==


activate ROS2
activate UserCode
UserCode -> ROS2: publish()
activate ROS2
ROS2 -> LTTng: sample rclcpp_publish


ROS2 -> DDS: dds_write()
deactivate ROS2
activate DDS
DDS -> LTTng: sample dds_write
DDS -> LTTng: sample dds_bind_addr_to_stamp

UserCode -> ROS2 : callback_end
deactivate UserCode
deactivate ROS2


== Subscription Side ==


DDS -> ROS2: <notify> on_data_available
activate ROS2

ROS2 -> DDS :  take messages
DDS -> ROS2
deactivate DDS
ROS2 -> LTTng: sample dispatch_subscription_callback
ROS2 -> LTTng: sample [callback_start
ROS2 -> UserCode: callback start
activate UserCode
UserCode -> ROS2: callback end
deactivate UserCode

deactivate ROS2
@enduml
```

`to_dataframe` API returns following columns.

| Column                   | Type        | Description             |
| ------------------------ | ----------- | ----------------------- |
| rclcpp_publish_timestamp | System time | Publish time in rclcpp. |
| rcl_publish_timestamp    | System time | Publish time in rcl.    |
| dds_write_timestamp      | System time | Publish time in rmw.    |
| callback_start_timestamp | System time | Callback start time.    |

See also

- [Trace points | message_construct](../trace_points/runtime_trace_points.md#ros2message_construct)
- [Trace points | rclcpp_publish](../trace_points/runtime_trace_points.md#ros2rclcpp_publish)
- [Trace points | rcl_publish](../trace_points/runtime_trace_points.md#ros2rcl_publish)
- [Trace points | dds_write](../trace_points/runtime_trace_points.md#ros2_caretdds_write)
- [Trace points | bind_addr_to_addr](../trace_points/runtime_trace_points.md#ros2_caretdds_bind_addr_to_addr)
- [Trace points | bind_addr_to_stamp](../trace_points/runtime_trace_points.md#ros2_caretdds_bind_addr_to_stamp)
- [Trace points | callback start](../trace_points/runtime_trace_points.md#ros2callback_start)
- [Trace points | dispatch_subscription_callback](../trace_points/runtime_trace_points.md#ros2dispatch_subscription_callback)
- [RuntimeDataProvider API](https://tier4.github.io/CARET_analyze/latest/infra/#caret_analyze.infra.lttng.lttng.Lttng.compose_inter_proc_comm_records)
