docs/visualization/index.md, before:

# Overview

This chapter explains how to visualize trace data as you expect. [Gallery](../gallery.md) section shows which type of visualization is supported by CARET. CARET serves uniform visualization API to create such graphs.

## Uniform API design

CARET serves `Plot` class to visualize trace data. The following sample code shows the basic usage of `Plot`.

```python
from caret_analyze import Application, Architecture, Lttng
from caret_analyze.plot import Plot
from bokeh.plotting import output_notebook, figure, show
output_notebook()

# Load recorded data
lttng = Lttng('/path/to/trace_data')
# Load an Architecture object
arch = Architecture('yaml', '/path/to/architecture_file')
# Map the architecture object to the recorded data
app = Application(arch, lttng)

# Focus on a target callback
callback = app.get_callback('/target/callback/name')

# Get plot object for visualizing callback frequency
# Plot.create_[Metrics]_[GraphType]_plot(data)
# is format to get a target data set to visualize
plot = Plot.create_frequency_timeseries_plot(callback)

# Assign a table to callback_df object
callback_df = plot.to_dataframe()

# Create a graph for frequency of callback execution
plot.show()
```

`plot` object is obtained from `Plot.create_[Metrics]_[GraphType]_plot(data)`. The argument of `data` is, for example, a `CallbackBase`-based object or a `Communication`-based object. A list of `CallbackBase` or `Communication` is also acceptable as explained later.
Any of performance metrics such as `latency`, `frequency`, or `period` is given as `Metrics`. `GraphType` is served to select a graph type such as time-series or histogram.

`plot` object has two method; `to_dataframe()` and `show()`.
`to_dataframe()` method returns a table including time-series data on a given metrics.
`show()` method creates a figure of time-series graph and returns the corresponding figure handler. In other words, `show()` method visualizes the time-series data.
If you want to create another type of graph manually, you will get the table by `to_dataframe()` method and convert it into the expected graph.

## Visualization API

This section lists methods to visualize several metrics. You will find a sample figure corresponding to metrics if you access the link.
Some of methods are not designed according to uniform API design, and they are exception.

### Callback

- [`create_frequency_timeseries_plot(callbacks: Collection[CallbackBase])`](./frequency/index.md#callback)
- [`create_period_timeseries_plot(callbacks: Collection[CallbackBase])`](./period/index.md#callback)
- [`create_latency_timeseries_plot(callbacks: Collection[CallbackBase])`](./latency/index.md#callback)
- [`create_callback_scheduling_plot`](./scheduling/callback.md)
  - Visualize callback scheduling

### Communication

- [`create_frequency_timeseries_plot(communications: Collection[Communication])`](./frequency/index.md#communication)
- [`create_period_timeseries_plot(data: [Communication])`](./period/index.md#communication)
- [`create_latency_timeseries_plot(data: [Communication])`](./latency/index.md#communication)

Here, CARET takes into account communication when both transmission and reception on a message are performed successfully without being lost.
See [Premise of communication](./premise_of_communication.md) for more details. Feel free to skip this page if you are not interested in.

### Path

- [`message_flow`](./path/message_flow.md)
  - Visualize message flow of a target path
- [`create_response_time_histogram_plot`](./path/response_time.md)
- [`chain_latency`](./path/chain_latency.md)

## Helper APIs

CARET provides some APIs which can help users to focus on their respective interest.

- [`LTTngEventFilter()`](./filter/lttng_event_filter.md)
- [Wildcards for `get_callbacks()`](./search/wildcards_for_get_callbacks.md)

<prettier-ignore-start>
!!!info
    [CARET analyze API document](https://tier4.github.io/CARET_analyze/) describes the parameters and returns of APIs.
<prettier-ignore-end>

Commit message:

docs(plot): fix documents for refactoring of Plot package. (#177)
* docs(plot): add save and figure methods

Signed-off-by: atsushi421 <yff81986@nifty.com>

* docs(plot): fix plot methods signatures

Signed-off-by: atsushi421 <yff81986@nifty.com>

* ci(pre-commit): autofix

---------

Signed-off-by: atsushi421 <yff81986@nifty.com>
Co-authored-by: pre-commit-ci[bot] <66853113+pre-commit-ci[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/visualization/index.md, after:

# Overview

This chapter explains how to visualize trace data as you expect. [Gallery](../gallery.md) section shows which type of visualization is supported by CARET. CARET serves uniform visualization API to create such graphs.

## Uniform API design

CARET serves `Plot` class to visualize trace data. The following sample code shows the basic usage of `Plot`.

```python
from caret_analyze import Application, Architecture, Lttng
from caret_analyze.plot import Plot
from bokeh.plotting import output_notebook, figure, show
output_notebook()

# Load recorded data
lttng = Lttng('/path/to/trace_data')
# Load an Architecture object
arch = Architecture('yaml', '/path/to/architecture_file')
# Map the architecture object to the recorded data
app = Application(arch, lttng)

# Focus on a target callback
callback = app.get_callback('/target/callback/name')

# Get plot object for visualizing callback frequency
# Plot.create_[Metrics]_[GraphType]_plot(data)
# is format to get a target data set to visualize
plot = Plot.create_frequency_timeseries_plot(callback)

# Assign a table to callback_df object
callback_df = plot.to_dataframe()

# Create a graph for frequency of callback execution
plot.show()
```

`plot` object is obtained from `Plot.create_[Metrics]_[GraphType]_plot(data)`. The argument of `data` is, for example, a `CallbackBase`-based object or a `Communication`-based object. A list of `CallbackBase` or `Communication` is also acceptable as explained later.
Any of performance metrics such as `latency`, `frequency`, or `period` is given as `Metrics`. `GraphType` is served to select a graph type such as time-series or histogram.

`plot` object has following four method; `to_dataframe()`, `show()`, `save()`, and `figure()`.

- `to_dataframe()` method returns a table including time-series data on a given metrics. If you want to create another type of graph manually, you will get the table by `to_dataframe()` method and convert it into the expected graph.
- `show()` method creates a figure of time-series graph. In other words, `show()` method visualizes the time-series data.
- `save()` method saves the figure in an arbitrary path.
- `figure()` method returns the corresponding figure handler. This method allows additional customization of the figure before it is displayed.

## Visualization API

This section lists methods to visualize several metrics. You will find a sample figure corresponding to metrics if you access the link.
Some of methods are not designed according to uniform API design, and they are exception.

### Callback

- [`create_frequency_timeseries_plot(callbacks: Collection[CallbackBase])`](./frequency/index.md#callback)
- [`create_period_timeseries_plot(callbacks: Collection[CallbackBase])`](./period/index.md#callback)
- [`create_latency_timeseries_plot(callbacks: Collection[CallbackBase])`](./latency/index.md#callback)
- [`create_callback_scheduling_plot`](./scheduling/callback.md)
  - Visualize callback scheduling

### Communication

- [`create_frequency_timeseries_plot(communications: Collection[Communication])`](./frequency/index.md#communication)
- [`create_period_timeseries_plot(data: [Communication])`](./period/index.md#communication)
- [`create_latency_timeseries_plot(data: [Communication])`](./latency/index.md#communication)

Here, CARET takes into account communication when both transmission and reception on a message are performed successfully without being lost.
See [Premise of communication](./premise_of_communication.md) for more details. Feel free to skip this page if you are not interested in.

### Path

- [`message_flow`](./path/message_flow.md)
  - Visualize message flow of a target path
- [`create_response_time_histogram_plot`](./path/response_time.md)
- [`chain_latency`](./path/chain_latency.md)

## Helper APIs

CARET provides some APIs which can help users to focus on their respective interest.

- [`LTTngEventFilter()`](./filter/lttng_event_filter.md)
- [Wildcards for `get_callbacks()`](./search/wildcards_for_get_callbacks.md)

<prettier-ignore-start>
!!!info
    [CARET analyze API document](https://tier4.github.io/CARET_analyze/) describes the parameters and returns of APIs.
<prettier-ignore-end>
