docs/visualization/lttng_event_filter.md, before:

# LTTngEventFilter の使用

CARET は数分程度の測定や解析までを取り扱うことができます。  
より長時間、十数分〜数十分程度の測定結果を取り扱う際には、メモリの使用量・解析時間・可視化時間などが問題となってきます。

そこで、CARET は LTTng の読み込み時に不要な測定結果を省くための API(LTTngEventFilter)を備えています。  
ここでは、LTTngEventFitler の使い方について説明します。

LTTngEventFitler では、以下のフィルタを備えています。

- init_pass_filter
- duration_filter
- strip_filter

## API 説明

```python
LttngEventFilter.init_pass_filter()
```

- 初期化時のトレースポイントのみを通します。

```python
LttngEventFilter.duration_filter(duration_s: float, offset_s: float)
```

- [duration_s]秒間を測定対象にフィルタリング
- 最初の[offset_s]秒間を無視

```python
LttngEventFilter.strip_filter(lsplit_s: Optional[float], rsplit_s: Optional[float])
```

- 測定開始から[lsplit_s]秒間の測定結果を無視
- 測定測定終了から[rsplit_s]秒間の測定結果を無視

## 使用例

```python
from caret_analyze import Lttng, LttngEventFilter

lttng = Lttng('/path/to/ctf', event_filters=[
  LttngEventFilter.duration_filter(10, 5)
]) # 測定開始5秒後から10秒間にフィルタいrング
```

event_filters は複数指定することもできます。  
複数を入れた場合は、全てのフィルタが指定した区間のみにフィルタリングされます。

Commit message:

docs: Visualization section structure improvement
Signed-off-by: Bo Peng <82485734+bopeng-saitama@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/visualization/lttng_event_filter.md, after:

# Usage of LTTngEventFilter

CARET can handle measurements and analysis up to several minutes. When handling measurement results of longer duration, from tens of minutes to several tens of minutes, memory usage, analysis time, visualization time, etc. become issues.

Therefore, CARET has an API (LTTngEventFilter) to omit unnecessary measurement results when reading LTTng.  
This section describes how to use the LTTngEventFilter.

LTTngEventFitler has the following filters

- init_pass_filter
- duration_filter
- strip_filter

## API Description

```python
LttngEventFilter.init_pass_filter()
```

- Filter the trace points at initialization 

```python
LttngEventFilter.duration_filter(duration_s: float, offset_s: float)
```

- [duration_s] : Seconds filtered for measurement
- [offset_s] : Ignore seconds from start

```python
LttngEventFilter.strip_filter(lsplit_s: Optional[float], rsplit_s: Optional[float])
```

- Ignore measurement results for [lsplit_s] from the start of the measurement
- Ignore measurement results for [rsplit_s] seconds after measurement ends

## Example of use

```python
from caret_analyze import Lttng, LttngEventFilter

lttng = Lttng('/path/to/ctf', event_filters=[
  LttngEventFilter.duration_filter(10, 5)
]) # Filtering from 5 seconds to 10 seconds after the start of the measurement
```

Multiple event_filters can be specified.  
If you include more than one, all filters will be filtered to the specified interval only.
