docs/design/index.md, before:

The design section describes the internals of CARET.
The following figure shows the tracing flow with each package added.

![architecture](../imgs/design.drawio.png)

CARET records data, which include timestamps, from tracepoints embedded in user applications, ROS 2 and DDS.
The data are stored as "Trace Data".
CARET analyzes the Trace Data and provides the results to the developer.

This design section describes policies and internal processes for each step listed below.

Recording phase

1. [Runtime processing](./runtime_processing/index.md)

2. [Tracepoints](./trace_points/index.md)

Configuration phase

1. [Configuration](./configuration/index.md)

Analyzing phase

1. [Processing trace data](./processing_trace_data/index.md)

2. [Visualization](./visualizations/index.md)

In addition, the followings are explained.

- [Software architecture](./software_architecture/index.md)
- [Event and latency definition](./event_and_latency_definitions/index.md)
- [Limits and constraints](./limits_and_constraints/index.md)

See also

- [CARET analyze API document](https://tier4.github.io/CARET_analyze/)

Commit message:

docs(design): improve introduction of chapter
Signed-off-by: Takayuki AKAMINE <takayuki.akamine@tier4.jp>

docs/design/index.md, after:

# Design 

## Introduction

Design chapter describes details of CARET like architecture overview, definition of tracepoints, integration of data for visualization.
The following figure shows the tracing flow with each package added.

![architecture](../imgs/design.drawio.png)

CARET records data, which include timestamps, from tracepoints embedded in user applications, ROS 2 and DDS.
The data are stored as "Trace Data".
CARET analyzes the Trace Data and provides the results to the developer.

This design section describes policies and internal processes for each step listed below.

Recording phase

1. [Runtime processing](./runtime_processing/index.md)

2. [Tracepoints](./trace_points/index.md)

Configuration phase

1. [Configuration](./configuration/index.md)

Analyzing phase

1. [Processing trace data](./processing_trace_data/index.md)

2. [Visualization](./visualizations/index.md)

In addition, the followings are explained.

- [Software architecture](./software_architecture/index.md)
- [Event and latency definition](./event_and_latency_definitions/index.md)
- [Limits and constraints](./limits_and_constraints/index.md)

See also

- [CARET analyze API document](https://tier4.github.io/CARET_analyze/)
