docs/design/tracepoint_definition.md, before:

# Tracepoints definition

This section lists all tracepoints and their definition.
Before listing tracepoints.

Some tracepoints are used for collecting identification of executors, nodes, callbacks, and topics during application's initialization. They are called initialization tracepoints. The other tracepoints are embedded for sampling timestamps after completion of initialization, and called runtime tracepoints.

Almost all of tracepoints supported by CARET are embedded in ROS and DDS layer. CARET utilizes some of the tracepoints embedded in original ROS 2 middleware, which are used for ros2-tracing. Some of the rest tracepoints are added to the fork of ROS 2's rclcpp, the other are introduced by function hooking with LD_PRELOAD. AS explained, tracepoints for CARET is embedded by three ways and they are identified as below.

- Original tracepoints
  - tracepoints embedded in original ROS 2 middleware which are utilized by ros2-tracing
  - some of tracepoints, for service, action and lifecycle node, are not utilized by CARET
- Extended tracepoints
  - CARET-dedicated tracepoints added to the fork of rclcpp
- Hooked tracepoints
  - CARET-dedicated tracepoints introduced by function hooking with LD_PRELOAD

<prettier-ignore-start>
!!! info
    Please read this section if you are interested in CARET-dedicated tracepoints are extended by the forked rclcpp and LD_PRELOAD. CARET would like to add tracepoints by function hooking as possible. LD_PRELOAD is reasonable to hook functions defined in dynamic library, but it cannot be applied to functions by implemented with C++ template. Such template-based implementation is mapped into binary file after it is built or compiled. Original rclpp uses C++ template for some functions like intra-process communication, for example. The forked rclcpp is introduced to add tracepoints to the functions.
<prettier-ignore-end>

## Sequence diagram of major tracepoints

```plantuml
@startuml
title: Definition of major trace points

participant UserCode
participant ROS2
participant DDS
participant LTTng

== Publisher Side ==

activate ROS2
activate UserCode
UserCode -> ROS2: publish()
activate ROS2
ROS2 --> LTTng: [rclcpp_publish] \n[rclcpp_intra_publish]


ROS2 -> DDS: dds_write()
deactivate ROS2
activate DDS
DDS --> LTTng: [dds_write]

UserCode -> ROS2 : callback_end
deactivate UserCode
deactivate ROS2
deactivate DDS


== Subscription Side ==

UserCode -> ROS2 : spin()
activate DDS
activate ROS2

loop
    ROS2 -> ROS2 : wait until next event
    activate ROS2
    DDS -> ROS2: <notify> on_data_available
    ROS2 --> LTTng : [on_data_available]
    deactivate ROS2

    deactivate DDS
    ROS2 -> DDS : reset ready-set, take messages
    activate DDS
    DDS -> ROS2
    deactivate DDS

    group execute timer callbacks
    end

    group execute subscription callbacks
        ROS2 --> LTTng: [callback_start]
        ROS2 -> UserCode: callback start
        activate UserCode
        UserCode -> ROS2: callback end
        deactivate UserCode
        ROS2 --> LTTng: [callback_end]
    end

    group execute service callbacks
    end

    group execute client callbacks
    end
end

deactivate ROS2
@enduml
```

## Initialization tracepoints

---

### ros2:rcl_init

[Original tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* context_handle

---

### ros2:rcl_node_init

[Original tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* node_handle
- void \* rmw_handle
- char \* node_name
- char \* node_namespace

---

### ros2:rcl_publisher_init

[Original tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* publisher_handle
- void \* node_handle
- void \* rmw_publisher_handle
- char \* topic_name
- size_t queue_depth

---

### ros2:rcl_subscription_init

[Original tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* subscription_handle
- void \* node_handle
- void \* rmw_subscription_handle
- char \* topic_name
- size_t queue_depth

---

### ros2:rclcpp_subscription_init

[Original tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* subscription_handle
- void \* subscription

---

### ros2:rclcpp_subscription_callback_added

[Original tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* subscription
- void \* callback

---

### ros2:rcl_timer_init

[Original tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* timer_handle
- int64_t period

---

### ros2:rclcpp_timer_callback_added

[Original tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* timer_handle
- void \* callback

---

### ros2:rclcpp_timer_link_node

[Original tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* timer_handle
- void \* node_handle

---

### ros2:rclcpp_callback_register

[Original tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* callback
- char \* function_symbol

---

### ros2_caret:rmw_implementation

[Hooked tracepoints]

Sampled items

- char \* rmw_impl

---

### ros2_caret:construct_executor

[Hooked tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* executor_addr
- char \* executor_type_name

---

### ros2_caret:construct_static_executor

[Hooked tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* executor_addr
- void \* entities_collector_addr
- char \* executor_type_name

---

### ros2_caret:add_callback_group

[Hooked tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* executor_addr
- void \* callback_group_addr
- char \* group_type_name

---

### ros2_caret:add_callback_group_static_executor

[Hooked tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* entities_collector_addr
- void \* callback_group_addr
- char \* group_type_name

---

### ros2_caret:callback_group_add_timer

[Hooked tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* callback_group_addr
- void \* timer_handle

---

### ros2_caret:callback_group_add_subscription

[Hooked tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* callback_group_addr
- void \* subscription_handle

---

### ros2_caret:callback_group_add_service

[Hooked tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* callback_group_addr
- void \* service_handle

---

### ros2_caret:callback_group_add_client

[Hooked tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* callback_group_addr
- void \* client_handle

---

## Runtime tracepoints

### ros2:callback_start

[Original tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* callback
- bool is_intra_process

---

### ros2:callback_end

[Original tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* callback

---

### ros2:message_construct

[Extended tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* original_message
- void \* constructed_message

---

### ros2:rclcpp_intra_publish

[Extended tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* publisher_handle
- void \* message
- uint64_t message_timestamp

---

### ros2:dispatch_subscription_callback

[Extended tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* message
- void \* callback
- uint64_t source_timestamp
- uint64_t message_timestamp

---

### ros2:dispatch_intra_process_subscription_callback

[Extended tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* message
- void \* callback
- uint64_t message_timestamp

---

### ros2:rcl_publish

[Original tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* publisher_handle
- void \* message

---

### ros2:rclcpp_publish

[Original tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* publisher_handle
- void \* message
- uint64_t message_timestamp

### ros2_caret:dds_write

[Hooked tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* message

---

### ros2_caret:dds_bind_addr_to_stamp

[Hooked tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* addr
- uint64_t source_stamp

---

### ros2_caret:dds_bind_addr_to_addr

[Hooked tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* addr_from
- void \* addr_to

---

## Tracepoints mapping

本ページで列挙しているトレースポイントはノード ID（`node_handle`）やコールバック ID（`コールバックのインスタンスのアドレス`）などの値を元に紐付けて利用する。  
それぞれのトレースポイントの対応関係をグラフで示す。

### Node initialization

```mermaid

graph RL
  node_handle[[node_handle]]
  subscription_handle[[subscription_handle]]
  subscription[[subscription]]
  callback[[callback]]
  timer_handle[[timer_handle]]
  client_handle[[client_handle]]
  node_handle[[node_handle]]
  publisher_handle[[publisher_handle]]

  rcl_init[rcl_init<ul><li>context_handle</li></ul>]

  rcl_node_init[rcl_node_init<br /><ul><li>node_handle</li><li>node_name</li><li>node_namespace</li><li>rmw_handle</li></ul>]

  rcl_publisher_init[rcl_publisher_init<br /><ul><li>node_handle</li><li>publisher_handle</li><li>rmw_publisher_handle</li><li>topic_name</li><li>queue_depth</li></ul>]

  rcl_subscription_init[rcl_subscription_init<ul><li>subscription_handle</li><li>node_handle</li><li>rmw_subscription_handle</li><li>topic_name</li><li>queue_depth</li></ul>]

  rclcpp_subscription_init[rclcpp_subscription_init<ul><li>subscription_handle</li><li>subscription</li></ul>]

  rclcpp_subscription_callback_added[rclcpp_subscription_callback_added<ul><li>subscription</li><li>callback</li></ul>]

  rclcpp_timer_link_node[rclcpp_timer_link_node<ul><li>timer_handle</li><li>node_handle</li></ul>]

  rclcpp_callback_register[rclcpp_callback_register<ul><li>callback</li><li>function_symbol</li></ul>]

  rmw_implementation[rmw_implementation<ul><li>rmw_impl</li></ul>]

  rcl_timer_init[rcl_timer_init<ul><li>timer_handle</li><li>period</li></ul>]


  rcl_publisher_init <--> node_handle
  node_handle <--> rcl_node_init
  rcl_subscription_init <--> node_handle
  subscription_handle <--> rcl_subscription_init
  rclcpp_subscription_init <--> subscription_handle

  publisher_handle <--> rcl_publisher_init

  subscription <--> rclcpp_subscription_init
  rclcpp_subscription_callback_added <--> subscription
  callback <--> rclcpp_subscription_callback_added

  rcl_timer_init <--> timer_handle
  rclcpp_timer_callback_added <--> timer_handle
  callback <-->  rclcpp_timer_callback_added
  timer_handle <--> rclcpp_timer_link_node
  rclcpp_timer_link_node <--> node_handle

  callback <--> rclcpp_callback_register
  rmw_implementation

```

コールバックのインスタンスのアドレス値が一意に決まれば、`timer_callback_added`など他のトレースポイントの値を紐付いていくことでノードの情報まで得ることができる。  
逆に、node_handle が一意に決まれば、そのノードに含まれるコールバックも特定できる。

### エグゼキューターやコールバックグループの初期化

```mermaid

graph RL
  subscription_handle[[subscription_handle]]
  executor_addr[[executor_addr]]
  entities_collector_addr[[entities_collector_addr]]
  timer_handle[[timer_handle]]
  client_handle[[client_handle]]
  service_handle[[service_handle]]
  callback_group_addr[[callback_group_addr]]

  construct_executor[construct_executor<ul><li>executor_addr</li><li>executor_type_name</li></ul>]

  construct_static_executor[construct_static_executor<ul><li>executor_addr</li><li>executor_type_name</li><li>entities_collector_addr</li></ul>]

  add_callback_group[add_callback_group<ul><li>executor_addr</li><li>callback_group_addr</li><li>group_type_name</li></ul>]

  add_callback_group_static_executor[add_callback_group_static_executor<ul><li>entities_collector_addr</li><li>callback_group_addr</li><li>group_type_name</li></ul>]

  callback_group_add_timer[callback_group_add_timer<ul><li>callback_group_addr</li><li>timer_handle</li></ul>]

  callback_group_add_subscription[callback_group_add_subscription<ul><li>callback_group_addr</li><li>subscription_handle</li></ul>]

  callback_group_add_service[callback_group_add_service<ul><li>callback_group_addr</li><li>service_handle</li></ul>]


  callback_group_add_client[callback_group_add_client<ul><li>callback_group_addr</li><li>client_handle</li></ul>]

  executor_addr <--> construct_executor
  entities_collector_addr <--> construct_static_executor
  add_callback_group <--> executor_addr
  callback_group_addr <--> add_callback_group

  add_callback_group_static_executor <--> entities_collector_addr
  callback_group_addr <--> add_callback_group_static_executor

  callback_group_add_timer <--> callback_group_addr
  timer_handle <--> callback_group_add_timer

  callback_group_add_subscription <--> callback_group_addr
  subscription_handle <--> callback_group_add_subscription

  callback_group_add_service <--> callback_group_addr
  service_handle <--> callback_group_add_service

  callback_group_add_client <--> callback_group_addr
  client_handle <--> callback_group_add_client
```

タイマーなどの各ハンドラはコールバックグループに追加され、エグゼキュータに紐付けられる。

### メッセージの publish まで

```mermaid

graph LR
  source_timestamp[[source_timestamp]]
  message_dds[[message_addr]]
  message_intra[[message_addr]]
  message_inter[[message_addr]]
  publish(("publish(message)"))
  source_timestamp[[source_timestamp]]
  message_intra_sub[[message_addr]]

  rclcpp_intra_publish[rclcpp_intra_publish<ul><li>publisher_handle</li><li>message_addr</li><li>message_timestamp</li></ul>]

  message_construct_intra[message_construct<ul><li>original_message_addr</li><li>constructed_message_addr</li></ul>]
  message_construct_inter[message_construct<ul><li>original_message_addr</li><li>constructed_message_addr</li></ul>]

  rclcpp_publish[rclcpp_publish<ul><li>publisher_handle</li><li>message_addr</li><li>message_timestamp</li></ul>]

  rcl_publish[rcl_publish<ul><li>publisher_handle</li><li>message_addr</li></ul>]
  dds_write[dds_write<ul><li>message_addr</li></ul>]
  dds_bind_addr_to_addr[dds_bind_addr_to_addr<ul><li>addr_from</li><li>addr_to</li></ul>]
  dds_bind_addr_to_stamp[dds_bind_addr_to_stamp<ul><li>message_addr</li><li>source_timestamp</li></ul>]

  publish -->  rclcpp_intra_publish
  publish -->  rclcpp_publish

  subgraph message_copy_if_necessary
    rclcpp_intra_publish <--> message_intra
    rclcpp_publish <--> message_inter
    message_construct_intra -.-> message_intra
    message_intra -.-> message_construct_intra
    message_construct_inter -.-> message_inter
    message_inter -.-> message_construct_inter
  end


  message_inter <--> rcl_publish
  message_inter <--> dds_write
  dds_write <--> message_dds

  message_dds <-->  dds_bind_addr_to_stamp
  dds_bind_addr_to_stamp <--> source_timestamp

  dds_bind_addr_to_addr -.-> message_dds
  message_dds -.-> dds_bind_addr_to_addr

```

`publish`を実行した際、unique_ptr 型で複数の subscription がある場合などのケースでは、必要に応じてメッセージのコピーが発生する。  
メッセージのコピーが発生した際は`message_construct`でコピー前とコピー後の変数のアドレスを紐付けられるようにしている。  
rcl レイヤー以下ではメッセージのアドレスで対応付けられるようにし、DDS レイヤーで source_timestamp に紐付けられるようにしている。  
source_timestamp は元々は QoS の Deadline などに使われる値で、全ての DDS 通信を行うメッセージに自動的に付与される値であり、subscription 側で同じ値が受信される。  
受信側では source_timestamp の値を紐付けるための情報として利用している。

message_addr（プロセス内通信）/source_timestamp（プロセス間通信）から publish までが一意に紐付けられる。

### メッセージの受信からコールバック実行まで

```mermaid

graph LR
  source_timestamp[[source_timestamp]]
  message_intra_sub[[message_addr]]
  message_intra[[message_addr]]
  callback[[callback]]
  source_timestamp[[source_timestamp]]
  source_timestamp_sub[source_timestamp]

  dispatch_subscription_callback[dispatch_subscription_callback<ul><li>message_addr</li><li>callback</li><li>source_timestamp</li><li>message_timestamp</li></ul>]
  dispatch_intra_process_subscription_callback[dispatch_intra_process_subscription_callback<ul><li>message_addr</li><li>callback</li><li>message_timestamp</li></ul>]

  callback_end_[callback_end<ul><li>callback</li></ul>]
  callback_start[callback_start<ul><li>callback</li><li>is_intra_process</li></ul>]


  source_timestamp --Inter Process Communication--> source_timestamp_sub
  message_intra --Intra Process Communication--> message_intra_sub
  message_intra_sub --> dispatch_intra_process_subscription_callback

  dispatch_intra_process_subscription_callback --> callback

  callback --> callback_start
  callback --> callback_end_

  dispatch_subscription_callback --> callback
  source_timestamp_sub --> dispatch_subscription_callback
```

プロセス内通信では publish されたメッセージのアドレスで紐づけを行う。  
プロセス間通信では source_timestamp で紐づけを行う。

callback_start から message_addr/source_timestamp までが一意に紐付けられる。  
また、publisher 側のグラフで示した通り、message_addr/source_timestamp から publish までが一意に紐付けられる。  
したがって、publish から callback_start までは一意に紐付けることができる。

ただし、コールバックの実行と publish の紐付けはできていないので注意。

Commit message:

fix(design): traslate structure of relationship
Signed-off-by: Takayuki AKAMINE <takayuki.akamine@tier4.jp>

docs/design/tracepoint_definition.md, after:

# Tracepoints definition

This section lists all tracepoints and their definition.
Before listing tracepoints.

Some tracepoints are used for collecting identification of executors, nodes, callbacks, and topics during application's initialization. They are called initialization tracepoints. The other tracepoints are embedded for sampling timestamps after completion of initialization, and called runtime tracepoints.

Almost all of tracepoints supported by CARET are embedded in ROS and DDS layer. CARET utilizes some of the tracepoints embedded in original ROS 2 middleware, which are used for ros2-tracing. Some of the rest tracepoints are added to the fork of ROS 2's rclcpp, the other are introduced by function hooking with LD_PRELOAD. AS explained, tracepoints for CARET is embedded by three ways and they are identified as below.

- Original tracepoints
  - tracepoints embedded in original ROS 2 middleware which are utilized by ros2-tracing
  - some of tracepoints, for service, action and lifecycle node, are not utilized by CARET
- Extended tracepoints
  - CARET-dedicated tracepoints added to the fork of rclcpp
- Hooked tracepoints
  - CARET-dedicated tracepoints introduced by function hooking with LD_PRELOAD

<prettier-ignore-start>
!!! info
    Please read this section if you are interested in CARET-dedicated tracepoints are extended by the forked rclcpp and LD_PRELOAD. CARET would like to add tracepoints by function hooking as possible. LD_PRELOAD is reasonable to hook functions defined in dynamic library, but it cannot be applied to functions by implemented with C++ template. Such template-based implementation is mapped into binary file after it is built or compiled. Original rclcpp uses C++ template for some functions like intra-process communication, for example. The forked rclcpp is introduced to add tracepoints to the functions.
<prettier-ignore-end>

## Sequence diagram of major tracepoints

```plantuml
@startuml
title: Definition of major trace points

participant UserCode
participant ROS2
participant DDS
participant LTTng

== Publisher Side ==

activate ROS2
activate UserCode
UserCode -> ROS2: publish()
activate ROS2
ROS2 --> LTTng: [rclcpp_publish] \n[rclcpp_intra_publish]


ROS2 -> DDS: dds_write()
deactivate ROS2
activate DDS
DDS --> LTTng: [dds_write]

UserCode -> ROS2 : callback_end
deactivate UserCode
deactivate ROS2
deactivate DDS


== Subscription Side ==

UserCode -> ROS2 : spin()
activate DDS
activate ROS2

loop
    ROS2 -> ROS2 : wait until next event
    activate ROS2
    DDS -> ROS2: <notify> on_data_available
    ROS2 --> LTTng : [on_data_available]
    deactivate ROS2

    deactivate DDS
    ROS2 -> DDS : reset ready-set, take messages
    activate DDS
    DDS -> ROS2
    deactivate DDS

    group execute timer callbacks
    end

    group execute subscription callbacks
        ROS2 --> LTTng: [callback_start]
        ROS2 -> UserCode: callback start
        activate UserCode
        UserCode -> ROS2: callback end
        deactivate UserCode
        ROS2 --> LTTng: [callback_end]
    end

    group execute service callbacks
    end

    group execute client callbacks
    end
end

deactivate ROS2
@enduml
```

## Initialization tracepoints

---

### ros2:rcl_init

[Original tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* context_handle

---

### ros2:rcl_node_init

[Original tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* node_handle
- void \* rmw_handle
- char \* node_name
- char \* node_namespace

---

### ros2:rcl_publisher_init

[Original tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* publisher_handle
- void \* node_handle
- void \* rmw_publisher_handle
- char \* topic_name
- size_t queue_depth

---

### ros2:rcl_subscription_init

[Original tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* subscription_handle
- void \* node_handle
- void \* rmw_subscription_handle
- char \* topic_name
- size_t queue_depth

---

### ros2:rclcpp_subscription_init

[Original tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* subscription_handle
- void \* subscription

---

### ros2:rclcpp_subscription_callback_added

[Original tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* subscription
- void \* callback

---

### ros2:rcl_timer_init

[Original tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* timer_handle
- int64_t period

---

### ros2:rclcpp_timer_callback_added

[Original tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* timer_handle
- void \* callback

---

### ros2:rclcpp_timer_link_node

[Original tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* timer_handle
- void \* node_handle

---

### ros2:rclcpp_callback_register

[Original tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* callback
- char \* function_symbol

---

### ros2_caret:rmw_implementation

[Hooked tracepoints]

Sampled items

- char \* rmw_impl

---

### ros2_caret:construct_executor

[Hooked tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* executor_addr
- char \* executor_type_name

---

### ros2_caret:construct_static_executor

[Hooked tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* executor_addr
- void \* entities_collector_addr
- char \* executor_type_name

---

### ros2_caret:add_callback_group

[Hooked tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* executor_addr
- void \* callback_group_addr
- char \* group_type_name

---

### ros2_caret:add_callback_group_static_executor

[Hooked tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* entities_collector_addr
- void \* callback_group_addr
- char \* group_type_name

---

### ros2_caret:callback_group_add_timer

[Hooked tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* callback_group_addr
- void \* timer_handle

---

### ros2_caret:callback_group_add_subscription

[Hooked tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* callback_group_addr
- void \* subscription_handle

---

### ros2_caret:callback_group_add_service

[Hooked tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* callback_group_addr
- void \* service_handle

---

### ros2_caret:callback_group_add_client

[Hooked tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* callback_group_addr
- void \* client_handle

---

## Runtime tracepoints

### ros2:callback_start

[Original tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* callback
- bool is_intra_process

---

### ros2:callback_end

[Original tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* callback

---

### ros2:message_construct

[Extended tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* original_message
- void \* constructed_message

---

### ros2:rclcpp_intra_publish

[Extended tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* publisher_handle
- void \* message
- uint64_t message_timestamp

---

### ros2:dispatch_subscription_callback

[Extended tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* message
- void \* callback
- uint64_t source_timestamp
- uint64_t message_timestamp

---

### ros2:dispatch_intra_process_subscription_callback

[Extended tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* message
- void \* callback
- uint64_t message_timestamp

---

### ros2:rcl_publish

[Original tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* publisher_handle
- void \* message

---

### ros2:rclcpp_publish

[Original tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* publisher_handle
- void \* message
- uint64_t message_timestamp

### ros2_caret:dds_write

[Hooked tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* message

---

### ros2_caret:dds_bind_addr_to_stamp

[Hooked tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* addr
- uint64_t source_stamp

---

### ros2_caret:dds_bind_addr_to_addr

[Hooked tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* addr_from
- void \* addr_to

---

## Structure of tracepoint relationship

Some tracepoints share a same identification, such as a node ID (`node_handle`) and an address of callback instance. The shared identification associates each tracepoint to another, the association constructs structure of tracepoint relationship. The following figures show four structures.

### Tracepoints for representing structure of a node

```mermaid

graph RL
  node_handle[[node_handle]]
  subscription_handle[[subscription_handle]]
  subscription[[subscription]]
  callback[[callback]]
  timer_handle[[timer_handle]]
  client_handle[[client_handle]]
  node_handle[[node_handle]]
  publisher_handle[[publisher_handle]]

  rcl_init[rcl_init<ul><li>context_handle</li></ul>]

  rcl_node_init[rcl_node_init<br /><ul><li>node_handle</li><li>node_name</li><li>node_namespace</li><li>rmw_handle</li></ul>]

  rcl_publisher_init[rcl_publisher_init<br /><ul><li>node_handle</li><li>publisher_handle</li><li>rmw_publisher_handle</li><li>topic_name</li><li>queue_depth</li></ul>]

  rcl_subscription_init[rcl_subscription_init<ul><li>subscription_handle</li><li>node_handle</li><li>rmw_subscription_handle</li><li>topic_name</li><li>queue_depth</li></ul>]

  rclcpp_subscription_init[rclcpp_subscription_init<ul><li>subscription_handle</li><li>subscription</li></ul>]

  rclcpp_subscription_callback_added[rclcpp_subscription_callback_added<ul><li>subscription</li><li>callback</li></ul>]

  rclcpp_timer_link_node[rclcpp_timer_link_node<ul><li>timer_handle</li><li>node_handle</li></ul>]

  rclcpp_callback_register[rclcpp_callback_register<ul><li>callback</li><li>function_symbol</li></ul>]

  rmw_implementation[rmw_implementation<ul><li>rmw_impl</li></ul>]

  rcl_timer_init[rcl_timer_init<ul><li>timer_handle</li><li>period</li></ul>]


  rcl_publisher_init <--> node_handle
  node_handle <--> rcl_node_init
  rcl_subscription_init <--> node_handle
  subscription_handle <--> rcl_subscription_init
  rclcpp_subscription_init <--> subscription_handle

  publisher_handle <--> rcl_publisher_init

  subscription <--> rclcpp_subscription_init
  rclcpp_subscription_callback_added <--> subscription
  callback <--> rclcpp_subscription_callback_added

  rcl_timer_init <--> timer_handle
  rclcpp_timer_callback_added <--> timer_handle
  callback <-->  rclcpp_timer_callback_added
  timer_handle <--> rclcpp_timer_link_node
  rclcpp_timer_link_node <--> node_handle

  callback <--> rclcpp_callback_register
  rmw_implementation

```

コールバックのインスタンスのアドレス値が一意に決まれば、`timer_callback_added`など他のトレースポイントの値を紐付いていくことでノードの情報まで得ることができる。  
If a certain of address of callback instance is unique, `timer_callback_added`
逆に、node_handle が一意に決まれば、そのノードに含まれるコールバックも特定できる。

### Tracepoints for representing structure of executor and callback group

```mermaid

graph RL
  subscription_handle[[subscription_handle]]
  executor_addr[[executor_addr]]
  entities_collector_addr[[entities_collector_addr]]
  timer_handle[[timer_handle]]
  client_handle[[client_handle]]
  service_handle[[service_handle]]
  callback_group_addr[[callback_group_addr]]

  construct_executor[construct_executor<ul><li>executor_addr</li><li>executor_type_name</li></ul>]

  construct_static_executor[construct_static_executor<ul><li>executor_addr</li><li>executor_type_name</li><li>entities_collector_addr</li></ul>]

  add_callback_group[add_callback_group<ul><li>executor_addr</li><li>callback_group_addr</li><li>group_type_name</li></ul>]

  add_callback_group_static_executor[add_callback_group_static_executor<ul><li>entities_collector_addr</li><li>callback_group_addr</li><li>group_type_name</li></ul>]

  callback_group_add_timer[callback_group_add_timer<ul><li>callback_group_addr</li><li>timer_handle</li></ul>]

  callback_group_add_subscription[callback_group_add_subscription<ul><li>callback_group_addr</li><li>subscription_handle</li></ul>]

  callback_group_add_service[callback_group_add_service<ul><li>callback_group_addr</li><li>service_handle</li></ul>]


  callback_group_add_client[callback_group_add_client<ul><li>callback_group_addr</li><li>client_handle</li></ul>]

  executor_addr <--> construct_executor
  entities_collector_addr <--> construct_static_executor
  add_callback_group <--> executor_addr
  callback_group_addr <--> add_callback_group

  add_callback_group_static_executor <--> entities_collector_addr
  callback_group_addr <--> add_callback_group_static_executor

  callback_group_add_timer <--> callback_group_addr
  timer_handle <--> callback_group_add_timer

  callback_group_add_subscription <--> callback_group_addr
  subscription_handle <--> callback_group_add_subscription

  callback_group_add_service <--> callback_group_addr
  service_handle <--> callback_group_add_service

  callback_group_add_client <--> callback_group_addr
  client_handle <--> callback_group_add_client
```

A handler such as `timer_handle` and `subscription_handle` are assigned to a callback group. A callback group belongs to an executor.

### Tracepoints for representing flow of message publish

```mermaid

graph LR
  source_timestamp[[source_timestamp]]
  message_dds[[message_addr]]
  message_intra[[message_addr]]
  message_inter[[message_addr]]
  publish(("publish(message)"))
  source_timestamp[[source_timestamp]]
  message_intra_sub[[message_addr]]

  rclcpp_intra_publish[rclcpp_intra_publish<ul><li>publisher_handle</li><li>message_addr</li><li>message_timestamp</li></ul>]

  message_construct_intra[message_construct<ul><li>original_message_addr</li><li>constructed_message_addr</li></ul>]
  message_construct_inter[message_construct<ul><li>original_message_addr</li><li>constructed_message_addr</li></ul>]

  rclcpp_publish[rclcpp_publish<ul><li>publisher_handle</li><li>message_addr</li><li>message_timestamp</li></ul>]

  rcl_publish[rcl_publish<ul><li>publisher_handle</li><li>message_addr</li></ul>]
  dds_write[dds_write<ul><li>message_addr</li></ul>]
  dds_bind_addr_to_addr[dds_bind_addr_to_addr<ul><li>addr_from</li><li>addr_to</li></ul>]
  dds_bind_addr_to_stamp[dds_bind_addr_to_stamp<ul><li>message_addr</li><li>source_timestamp</li></ul>]

  publish -->  rclcpp_intra_publish
  publish -->  rclcpp_publish

  subgraph message_copy_if_necessary
    rclcpp_intra_publish <--> message_intra
    rclcpp_publish <--> message_inter
    message_construct_intra -.-> message_intra
    message_intra -.-> message_construct_intra
    message_construct_inter -.-> message_inter
    message_inter -.-> message_construct_inter
  end


  message_inter <--> rcl_publish
  message_inter <--> dds_write
  dds_write <--> message_dds

  message_dds <-->  dds_bind_addr_to_stamp
  dds_bind_addr_to_stamp <--> source_timestamp

  dds_bind_addr_to_addr -.-> message_dds
  message_dds -.-> dds_bind_addr_to_addr

```

`publish`を実行した際、unique_ptr 型で複数の subscription がある場合などのケースでは、必要に応じてメッセージのコピーが発生する。  
メッセージのコピーが発生した際は`message_construct`でコピー前とコピー後の変数のアドレスを紐付けられるようにしている。  
rcl レイヤー以下ではメッセージのアドレスで対応付けられるようにし、DDS レイヤーで source_timestamp に紐付けられるようにしている。  
source_timestamp は元々は QoS の Deadline などに使われる値で、全ての DDS 通信を行うメッセージに自動的に付与される値であり、subscription 側で同じ値が受信される。  
受信側では source_timestamp の値を紐付けるための情報として利用している。

message_addr（プロセス内通信）/source_timestamp（プロセス間通信）から publish までが一意に紐付けられる。

### Tracepoints for representing flow of callback execution after topic subscription

```mermaid

graph LR
  source_timestamp[[source_timestamp]]
  message_intra_sub[[message_addr]]
  message_intra[[message_addr]]
  callback[[callback]]
  source_timestamp[[source_timestamp]]
  source_timestamp_sub[source_timestamp]

  dispatch_subscription_callback[dispatch_subscription_callback<ul><li>message_addr</li><li>callback</li><li>source_timestamp</li><li>message_timestamp</li></ul>]
  dispatch_intra_process_subscription_callback[dispatch_intra_process_subscription_callback<ul><li>message_addr</li><li>callback</li><li>message_timestamp</li></ul>]

  callback_end_[callback_end<ul><li>callback</li></ul>]
  callback_start[callback_start<ul><li>callback</li><li>is_intra_process</li></ul>]


  source_timestamp --Inter Process Communication--> source_timestamp_sub
  message_intra --Intra Process Communication--> message_intra_sub
  message_intra_sub --> dispatch_intra_process_subscription_callback

  dispatch_intra_process_subscription_callback --> callback

  callback --> callback_start
  callback --> callback_end_

  dispatch_subscription_callback --> callback
  source_timestamp_sub --> dispatch_subscription_callback
```

プロセス内通信では publish されたメッセージのアドレスで紐づけを行う。  
プロセス間通信では source_timestamp で紐づけを行う。

callback_start から message_addr/source_timestamp までが一意に紐付けられる。  
また、publisher 側のグラフで示した通り、message_addr/source_timestamp から publish までが一意に紐付けられる。  
したがって、publish から callback_start までは一意に紐付けることができる。

ただし、コールバックの実行と publish の紐付けはできていないので注意。
