docs/visualization/communication/index.md, before:

# Communication

CARET can visualize frequency, period, and latency of communication on certain topic messages.  
This section describes sample visualization scripts for them.  
Execute following the following script code to load trace data and an architecture object before calling visualization API.

```python
from caret_analyze.plot import Plot
from caret_analyze import Application, Architecture, Lttng
from bokeh.plotting import output_notebook, figure, show
output_notebook()

arch = Architecture('yaml', '/path/to/architecture_file')
lttng = Lttng('/path/to/trace_data')
app = Application(arch, lttng)
comm = app.get_communications('topic_name')
comm = comm[0]
# or comm = app.get_communication('pub_node', 'sub_node', 'topic_name')
```

<prettier-ignore-start>
!!!info
    1. The `output_notebook()` is needed to show figures inside Jupyter Notebook.
    2. The function `get_communications` returns a List and the function `get_communication` returns one communication handler.
<prettier-ignore-end>

## Frequency

`Plot.create_communication_frequency_plot(communications: List[Communication])` is introduced to confirm targeted topic is communicated at expected frequency.

```python
plot = Plot.create_communication_frequency_plot(comm)
plot.show()
```

![communication_frequency_time_line](../../imgs/communication_frequency_time_line.png)

The horizontal axis means time, labeled as `Time [s]`. `xaxis_type` argument is prepared to select index of x-axis among Linux system time, [ROS simulation time](../../recording/sim_time.md), and 0-based ordering. One of `'system_time'`, `'sim_time'` and `'index'` is chosen as `xaxis_type` though `'system_time'` is the default value.
The vertical axis means frequency of communication, labeled as `Frequency [Hz]`. It is plotted per second.

## Period

`Plot.create_communication_period_plot(communications: List[Communication])` is helpful if you want to see that communication period is stable or not.

```python
plot = Plot.create_communication_period_plot(comm)
plot.show()
```

![communication_period_time_line](../../imgs/communication_period_time_line.png)

The horizontal axis means time, labeled as `Time [s]`. `xaxis_type` argument is prepared as well as `create_communication_frequency_plot()` method.
The vertical axis means period, labeled as `Period [ms]`, from a certain execution of communication to next one.

## Latency

`Plot.create_communication_latency_plot(communications: List[Communication])` is called when you are concerned how long time is consumed from message publish to corresponding subscription.

```python
plot = Plot.create_communication_latency_plot(comm)
plot.show()
```

![communication_latency_time_line](../../imgs/communication_latency_time_line.png)

The horizontal axis means time, labeled as `Time [s]`. `xaxis_type` argument is prepared as well as `create_communication_frequency_plot()` method.
The vertical axis means latency, labeled as `Latency [ms]`. It is plotted per sample.

<prettier-ignore-start>
!!! warning
    Communication latency is defined as elapsed time from topic message publish to subscription callback execution corresponding to the message.
    Strictly speaking, it is not not only required time from message transmission to reception, but it includes scheduling latency of
<prettier-ignore-end>

## Caution

CARET picks up communication execution if both transmission and corresponding subscription are performed successfully. If any failure on communication happens, CARET does not take it into account. Communication failure is observed if you check difference between count of publish and that of subscription. [The subsection](./publish_subscription.md) will explain it.

Commit message:

docs: updated communication visualization
Signed-off-by: Takayuki AKAMINE <takayuki.akamine@tier4.jp>

docs/visualization/communication/index.md, after:

# Communication

## Premise

<prettier-ignore-start>
!!!info
    This premise section may be boring for some users. If you don't have much time, please feel free to skip the section.
<prettier-ignore-end>


In ROS 2, nodes communicate each other via topic messages. The topic messages are transmitted by publisher and received by subscription. The following figure shows the simplest example where one node sends topic message and the other node receives it.

![simple communication](./imgs/simple_communication.svg)

CARET serves `Communication` class which focus on a topic message from a source node to a destination node. A `Communication`-based object is retrieved from method, `Application.get_communication('source node', 'destination node', '/topic/message')`. A `Communication` object has a collection of timestamps which are obtained when both publish and subscription on a target message are performed successfully. `Communication` class is explained in the page.

Topic messages have possibility to be lost in communication path as they are transmitted and received by UDP. A `Communication` object ignores loss of topic messages. If you want to check loss of topic messages, it is reasonable to compare the number of publish and that of subscription. CARET serves both `Publish` and `Subscription` class. A `Publish` object has a collection of timestamp obtained when publish is invoked. A `Subscription` object have timestamps of invocation of subscription callback. Visualization of `Publish` and `Subscription` objects are explained in [one of subsections](./publish_subscription.md).

[Many-to-many communication subsection](./many_to_many_communication.md) explains cases where multiple source nodes or multiple destination nodes exist. Many-to-many communication is divided into 1-to-1 communication by CARET. The subsection describes what user have to take care of.

## Visualization using `Communication` class

CARET can visualize frequency, period, and latency of communication on certain topic messages.  
This section describes sample visualization scripts for them.  
Execute following the following script code to load trace data and an architecture object before calling visualization API.

```python
from caret_analyze.plot import Plot
from caret_analyze import Application, Architecture, Lttng
from bokeh.plotting import output_notebook, figure, show
output_notebook()

arch = Architecture('yaml', '/path/to/architecture_file')
lttng = Lttng('/path/to/trace_data')
app = Application(arch, lttng)
comm = app.get_communications('topic_name')
comm = comm[0]
# or comm = app.get_communication('pub_node', 'sub_node', 'topic_name')
```

<prettier-ignore-start>
!!!info
    1. The `output_notebook()` is needed to show figures inside Jupyter Notebook.
    2. The function `get_communications` returns a List and the function `get_communication` returns one communication handler.
<prettier-ignore-end>

## Frequency

`Plot.create_communication_frequency_plot(communications: List[Communication])` is introduced to confirm targeted topic is communicated at expected frequency.

```python
plot = Plot.create_communication_frequency_plot(comm)
plot.show()
```

![communication_frequency_time_line](../../imgs/communication_frequency_time_line.png)

The horizontal axis means time, labeled as `Time [s]`. `xaxis_type` argument is prepared to select index of x-axis among Linux system time, [ROS simulation time](../../recording/sim_time.md), and 0-based ordering. One of `'system_time'`, `'sim_time'` and `'index'` is chosen as `xaxis_type` though `'system_time'` is the default value.
The vertical axis means frequency of communication, labeled as `Frequency [Hz]`. It is plotted per second.

## Period

`Plot.create_communication_period_plot(communications: List[Communication])` is helpful if you want to see that communication period is stable or not.

```python
plot = Plot.create_communication_period_plot(comm)
plot.show()
```

![communication_period_time_line](../../imgs/communication_period_time_line.png)

The horizontal axis means time, labeled as `Time [s]`. `xaxis_type` argument is prepared as well as `create_communication_frequency_plot()` method.
The vertical axis means period, labeled as `Period [ms]`, from a certain execution of communication to next one.

## Latency

`Plot.create_communication_latency_plot(communications: List[Communication])` is called when you are concerned how long time is consumed from message publish to corresponding subscription.

```python
plot = Plot.create_communication_latency_plot(comm)
plot.show()
```

![communication_latency_time_line](../../imgs/communication_latency_time_line.png)

The horizontal axis means time, labeled as `Time [s]`. `xaxis_type` argument is prepared as well as `create_communication_frequency_plot()` method.
The vertical axis means latency, labeled as `Latency [ms]`. It is plotted per sample.

<prettier-ignore-start>
!!! warning
    Communication latency is defined as elapsed time from topic message publish to subscription callback execution corresponding to the message.
    Strictly speaking, it is not not only required time from message transmission to reception, but it includes scheduling latency of
<prettier-ignore-end>
