docs/recording/cli_tool.md, before:

# CLI tools for recording

CARET provides CLI tools which can be utilized at recording process.

<prettier-ignore-start>
!!!info
      CARET environment settings need to be performed to use these CLI tools by the following commands.

      ```bash
      source /opt/ros/humble/setup.bash
      source ~/ros2_caret_ws/install/local_setup.bash
      ```

<prettier-ignore-end>

## Build results validation

This command checks whether a target application is successfully built with CARET/rclcpp. ([See details](./build_check.md#check-whether-caretrclcpp-is-applied-to-each-package))

```bash
ros2 caret check_caret_rclcpp --workspace <path-to-workspace>
```

```bash
---Output text as below---

INFO    : 2022-09-29 20:18:43 | All packages are built using caret-rclcpp.
```

## Trace data validation

This command checks whether a recording is successful. ([See details](./validating.md#validating-trace-data))

If there are problems with the recorded data, warning messages will be displayed

```bash
ros2 caret check_ctf --trace_dir <path-to-trace-data>
```

## Node summary

This command displays the number of events per node.

```bash
ros2 caret node_summary --trace_dir <path-to-trace-data>
```

```bash
---Output text as below---

=============================================
Trace creation datetime | 2022-07-16 17:34:07
Trace range             | 17:34:07 ~ 17:35:08
Trace duration          | 0:01:00
=============================================

 node_name            |   number_of_trace_points
----------------------+--------------------------
 /message_driven_node |                     4207
 /timer_driven_node   |                     3630
 /filter_node         |                     2680
 /drive_node          |                     2146
 /sensor_dummy_node   |                     2144
 /actuator_dummy_node |                     1609
```

## Topic summary

This command displays the number of events per topic.

```bash
ros2 caret topic_summary --trace_dir <path-to-trace-data>
```

```bash
---Output text as below---

=============================================
Trace creation datetime | 2022-07-16 17:34:07
Trace range             | 17:34:07 ~ 17:35:08
Trace duration          | 0:01:00
=============================================

 topic_name        |   number_of_trace_points
-------------------+--------------------------
 /drive            |                     2668
 /topic1           |                     2668
 /topic2           |                     2668
 /topic4           |                     2658
 /topic3           |                     2478
 /parameter_events |                       66
 /rosout           |                        6
```

<prettier-ignore-start>
!!!info
      If the number of events is too huge to handle, [trace filtering](./trace_filtering.md) is a reasonable choice to exclude unnecessary nodes/topics based on the output result.
<prettier-ignore-end>

## Tracepoint summary

This command displays all tracepoints included in the trace data and the number of events collected by tracepoints.

```bash
ros2 caret trace_point_summary --trace_dir <path-to-trace-data>
```

```bash
---Output text as below---

=============================================
Trace creation datetime | 2022-07-16 17:34:07
Trace range             | 17:34:07 ~ 17:35:08
Trace duration          | 0:01:00
=============================================

 trace_point                                       |   number_of_trace_points
---------------------------------------------------+--------------------------
 ros2:callback_end                                 |                     4216
 ros2:callback_start                               |                     4216
 ros2_caret:dds_write                              |                     2790
 ros2_caret:dds_bind_addr_to_stamp                 |                     2790
 ros2:rcl_publish                                  |                     2650
 ros2:rclcpp_publish                               |                     2650
 ros2:dispatch_subscription_callback               |                     2620
 ros2:rclcpp_subscription_callback_added           |                       44
 ros2:rclcpp_service_callback_added                |                       44
 ros2:rclcpp_callback_register                     |                       44
 ros2:rclcpp_timer_callback_added                  |                       44
 ros2_caret:callback_group_add_service             |                       36
 ros2:rcl_service_init                             |                       36
 ros2:rcl_publisher_init                           |                       17
 ros2_caret:callback_group_add_subscription        |                       11
 ros2:rcl_node_init                                |                        6
 ros2_caret:add_callback_group                     |                        6
 ros2:rcl_subscription_init                        |                        5
 ros2:rclcpp_subscription_init                     |                        5
 ros2:rcl_timer_init                               |                        3
 ros2:rclcpp_timer_link_node                       |                        3
 ros2_caret:callback_group_add_timer               |                        3
 ros2_caret:construct_executor                     |                        1
 ros2_caret:rmw_implementation                     |                        1
 ros2:rcl_init                                     |                        1
 ros2:rcl_client_init                              |                        0
 ros2:dispatch_intra_process_subscription_callback |                        0
 ros2_caret:tilde_subscribe_added                  |                        0
 ros2_caret:tilde_subscribe                        |                        0
 ros2_caret:tilde_publisher_init                   |                        0
 ros2_caret:tilde_publish                          |                        0
 ros2_caret:sim_time                               |                        0
 ros2_caret:on_data_available                      |                        0
 ros2:message_construct                            |                        0
 ros2_caret:dds_bind_addr_to_addr                  |                        0
 ros2_caret:construct_static_executor              |                        0
 ros2:rclcpp_intra_publish                         |                        0
 ros2:rcl_lifecycle_transition                     |                        0
 ros2:rcl_lifecycle_state_machine_init             |                        0
 ros2_caret:callback_group_add_client              |                        0
 ros2_caret:add_callback_group_static_executor     |                        0
 ros2_caret:tilde_subscription_init                |                        0
```

## Filtering for summary commands

Executing a summary command for huge trace data (e.g., more than 10 minutes) takes time.
The following two options allow you to filter the load range of trace data used for summary output.
In both options, the argument type is float and the unit of time is second.

```bash
ros2 caret trace_point_summary --trace_dir <path-to-trace-data> --duration_filter <DURATION> <OFFSET>
ros2 caret trace_point_summary --trace_dir <path-to-trace-data> --strip_filter <LSTRIP> <RSTRIP>
```

- `--duration_filter [DURATION] [OFFSET]`
  - Load only this [DURATION] from [OFFSET].
- `--strip_filter [LSTRIP] [RSTRIP]`
  - Ignore trace data for specified seconds from start/end.

```bash
---Output text as below---

=============================================
Trace creation datetime | 2022-07-16 17:34:07
Trace range             | 17:34:07 ~ 17:35:08
Trace duration          | 0:01:00
Filtered trace range    | 17:34:15 ~ 17:34:45
Filtered trace duration | 0:00:29
=============================================

 trace_point                                       |   number_of_trace_points
---------------------------------------------------+--------------------------
 ros2:callback_end                                 |                     2385
 ros2:callback_start                               |                     2385
 ros2:dispatch_subscription_callback               |                     1485
 ros2:rcl_publish                                  |                     1484
 ros2_caret:dds_write                              |                     1484
 ros2_caret:dds_bind_addr_to_stamp                 |                     1484
 ros2:rclcpp_publish                               |                     1484
 ros2:rclcpp_subscription_callback_added           |                       44
 ros2:rclcpp_service_callback_added                |                       44
 ros2:rclcpp_callback_register                     |                       44
 ros2:rclcpp_timer_callback_added                  |                       44
 ros2_caret:callback_group_add_service             |                       36
 ros2:rcl_service_init                             |                       36
 ros2:rcl_publisher_init                           |                       17
 ros2_caret:callback_group_add_subscription        |                       11
 ros2:rcl_node_init                                |                        6
 ros2_caret:add_callback_group                     |                        6
 ros2:rcl_subscription_init                        |                        5
 ros2:rclcpp_subscription_init                     |                        5
 ros2:rcl_timer_init                               |                        3
 ros2:rclcpp_timer_link_node                       |                        3
 ros2_caret:callback_group_add_timer               |                        3
 ros2_caret:construct_executor                     |                        1
 ros2_caret:rmw_implementation                     |                        1
 ros2:rcl_init                                     |                        1
 ros2:rcl_client_init                              |                        0
 ros2:dispatch_intra_process_subscription_callback |                        0
 ros2_caret:tilde_subscribe_added                  |                        0
 ros2_caret:tilde_subscribe                        |                        0
 ros2_caret:tilde_publisher_init                   |                        0
 ros2_caret:tilde_publish                          |                        0
 ros2_caret:sim_time                               |                        0
 ros2_caret:on_data_available                      |                        0
 ros2:message_construct                            |                        0
 ros2_caret:dds_bind_addr_to_addr                  |                        0
 ros2_caret:construct_static_executor              |                        0
 ros2:rclcpp_intra_publish                         |                        0
 ros2:rcl_lifecycle_transition                     |                        0
 ros2:rcl_lifecycle_state_machine_init             |                        0
 ros2_caret:callback_group_add_client              |                        0
 ros2_caret:add_callback_group_static_executor     |                        0
 ros2_caret:tilde_subscription_init                |                        0
```

Commit message:

docs: update tutorial and recording for runtime recording (#126)
* modify tracepoint definition pages

Signed-off-by: hsgwa <19860128+hsgwa@users.noreply.github.com>

* modify design pages

Signed-off-by: hsgwa <19860128+hsgwa@users.noreply.github.com>

* modify usage

Signed-off-by: hsgwa <19860128+hsgwa@users.noreply.github.com>

* typo

Signed-off-by: hsgwa <19860128+hsgwa@users.noreply.github.com>

* add: tracepoints_category.drawio.png

Signed-off-by: hsgwa <19860128+hsgwa@users.noreply.github.com>

* address comments except for design pages

Signed-off-by: hsgwa <19860128+hsgwa@users.noreply.github.com>

* rebase design pages

Signed-off-by: hsgwa <19860128+hsgwa@users.noreply.github.com>

* address comment

Signed-off-by: hsgwa <19860128+hsgwa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Co-authored-by: Takayuki AKAMINE <takam5f2@users.noreply.github.com>

Signed-off-by: hsgwa <19860128+hsgwa@users.noreply.github.com>

* typo

Signed-off-by: hsgwa <19860128+hsgwa@users.noreply.github.com>

Signed-off-by: hsgwa <19860128+hsgwa@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/recording/cli_tool.md, after:

# CLI tools for recording

CARET provides CLI tools which can be utilized at recording process.

<prettier-ignore-start>
!!!info
      CARET environment settings need to be performed to use these CLI tools by the following commands.

      ```bash
      source /opt/ros/humble/setup.bash
      source ~/ros2_caret_ws/install/local_setup.bash
      ```

<prettier-ignore-end>

## Build results validation

This command checks whether a target application is successfully built with CARET/rclcpp. ([See details](./build_check.md#check-whether-caretrclcpp-is-applied-to-each-package))

```bash
ros2 caret check_caret_rclcpp --workspace <path-to-workspace>
```

```bash
---Output text as below---

INFO    : 2022-09-29 20:18:43 | All packages are built using caret-rclcpp.
```

## Recording

This command starts a LTTng session and recording sequence. ([See details](./recording.md))

Recording begins after `All process started recording` is displayed.

```bash
ros2 caret record --session-name <session_name> --recording-frequency <recording_frequency> --verbose
```

<!-- Please refer to [name of page](path) for detail of `<recording_frequency>`. -->

Increasing value of `<recording_frequency>` reduces time required to start recording.
However, if large value is given to `<recording_frequency>`, recording is more likely to cause `Tracer discarded`.  
`-f` is the short option for `--recording-frequency`  
[TODO] Add a link to the design page as a reference for details.

With the `--verbose` option, you can check status for recording sequence in detail.  
`-v` is the short option for `--verbose`

## Trace data validation

This command checks whether a recording is successful. ([See details](./validating.md#validating-trace-data))

If there are problems with the recorded data, warning messages will be displayed

```bash
ros2 caret check_ctf --trace_dir <path-to-trace-data>
```

## Node summary

This command displays the number of events per node.

```bash
ros2 caret node_summary --trace_dir <path-to-trace-data>
```

```bash
---Output text as below---

=============================================
Trace creation datetime | 2022-07-16 17:34:07
Trace range             | 17:34:07 ~ 17:35:08
Trace duration          | 0:01:00
=============================================

 node_name            |   number_of_trace_points
----------------------+--------------------------
 /message_driven_node |                     4207
 /timer_driven_node   |                     3630
 /filter_node         |                     2680
 /drive_node          |                     2146
 /sensor_dummy_node   |                     2144
 /actuator_dummy_node |                     1609
```

## Topic summary

This command displays the number of events per topic.

```bash
ros2 caret topic_summary --trace_dir <path-to-trace-data>
```

```bash
---Output text as below---

=============================================
Trace creation datetime | 2022-07-16 17:34:07
Trace range             | 17:34:07 ~ 17:35:08
Trace duration          | 0:01:00
=============================================

 topic_name        |   number_of_trace_points
-------------------+--------------------------
 /drive            |                     2668
 /topic1           |                     2668
 /topic2           |                     2668
 /topic4           |                     2658
 /topic3           |                     2478
 /parameter_events |                       66
 /rosout           |                        6
```

<prettier-ignore-start>
!!!info
      If the number of events is too huge to handle, [trace filtering](./trace_filtering.md) is a reasonable choice to exclude unnecessary nodes/topics based on the output result.
<prettier-ignore-end>

## Tracepoint summary

This command displays all tracepoints included in the trace data and the number of events collected by tracepoints.

```bash
ros2 caret trace_point_summary --trace_dir <path-to-trace-data>
```

```bash
---Output text as below---

=============================================
Trace creation datetime | 2022-07-16 17:34:07
Trace range             | 17:34:07 ~ 17:35:08
Trace duration          | 0:01:00
=============================================

 trace_point                                       |   number_of_trace_points
---------------------------------------------------+--------------------------
 ros2:callback_end                                 |                     4216
 ros2:callback_start                               |                     4216
 ros2_caret:dds_write                              |                     2790
 ros2_caret:dds_bind_addr_to_stamp                 |                     2790
 ros2:rcl_publish                                  |                     2650
 ros2:rclcpp_publish                               |                     2650
 ros2:dispatch_subscription_callback               |                     2620
 ros2:rclcpp_subscription_callback_added           |                       44
 ros2:rclcpp_service_callback_added                |                       44
 ros2:rclcpp_callback_register                     |                       44
 ros2:rclcpp_timer_callback_added                  |                       44
 ros2_caret:callback_group_add_service             |                       36
 ros2:rcl_service_init                             |                       36
 ros2:rcl_publisher_init                           |                       17
 ros2_caret:callback_group_add_subscription        |                       11
 ros2:rcl_node_init                                |                        6
 ros2_caret:add_callback_group                     |                        6
 ros2:rcl_subscription_init                        |                        5
 ros2:rclcpp_subscription_init                     |                        5
 ros2:rcl_timer_init                               |                        3
 ros2:rclcpp_timer_link_node                       |                        3
 ros2_caret:callback_group_add_timer               |                        3
 ros2_caret:construct_executor                     |                        1
 ros2_caret:rmw_implementation                     |                        1
 ros2:rcl_init                                     |                        1
 ros2:rcl_client_init                              |                        0
 ros2:dispatch_intra_process_subscription_callback |                        0
 ros2_caret:tilde_subscribe_added                  |                        0
 ros2_caret:tilde_subscribe                        |                        0
 ros2_caret:tilde_publisher_init                   |                        0
 ros2_caret:tilde_publish                          |                        0
 ros2_caret:sim_time                               |                        0
 ros2_caret:on_data_available                      |                        0
 ros2:message_construct                            |                        0
 ros2_caret:dds_bind_addr_to_addr                  |                        0
 ros2_caret:construct_static_executor              |                        0
 ros2:rclcpp_intra_publish                         |                        0
 ros2:rcl_lifecycle_transition                     |                        0
 ros2:rcl_lifecycle_state_machine_init             |                        0
 ros2_caret:callback_group_add_client              |                        0
 ros2_caret:add_callback_group_static_executor     |                        0
 ros2_caret:tilde_subscription_init                |                        0
```

## Filtering for summary commands

Executing a summary command for huge trace data (e.g., more than 10 minutes) takes time.
The following two options allow you to filter the load range of trace data used for summary output.
In both options, the argument type is float and the unit of time is second.

```bash
ros2 caret trace_point_summary --trace_dir <path-to-trace-data> --duration_filter <DURATION> <OFFSET>
ros2 caret trace_point_summary --trace_dir <path-to-trace-data> --strip_filter <LSTRIP> <RSTRIP>
```

- `--duration_filter [DURATION] [OFFSET]`
  - Load only this [DURATION] from [OFFSET].
- `--strip_filter [LSTRIP] [RSTRIP]`
  - Ignore trace data for specified seconds from start/end.

```bash
---Output text as below---

=============================================
Trace creation datetime | 2022-07-16 17:34:07
Trace range             | 17:34:07 ~ 17:35:08
Trace duration          | 0:01:00
Filtered trace range    | 17:34:15 ~ 17:34:45
Filtered trace duration | 0:00:29
=============================================

 trace_point                                       |   number_of_trace_points
---------------------------------------------------+--------------------------
 ros2:callback_end                                 |                     2385
 ros2:callback_start                               |                     2385
 ros2:dispatch_subscription_callback               |                     1485
 ros2:rcl_publish                                  |                     1484
 ros2_caret:dds_write                              |                     1484
 ros2_caret:dds_bind_addr_to_stamp                 |                     1484
 ros2:rclcpp_publish                               |                     1484
 ros2:rclcpp_subscription_callback_added           |                       44
 ros2:rclcpp_service_callback_added                |                       44
 ros2:rclcpp_callback_register                     |                       44
 ros2:rclcpp_timer_callback_added                  |                       44
 ros2_caret:callback_group_add_service             |                       36
 ros2:rcl_service_init                             |                       36
 ros2:rcl_publisher_init                           |                       17
 ros2_caret:callback_group_add_subscription        |                       11
 ros2:rcl_node_init                                |                        6
 ros2_caret:add_callback_group                     |                        6
 ros2:rcl_subscription_init                        |                        5
 ros2:rclcpp_subscription_init                     |                        5
 ros2:rcl_timer_init                               |                        3
 ros2:rclcpp_timer_link_node                       |                        3
 ros2_caret:callback_group_add_timer               |                        3
 ros2_caret:construct_executor                     |                        1
 ros2_caret:rmw_implementation                     |                        1
 ros2:rcl_init                                     |                        1
 ros2:rcl_client_init                              |                        0
 ros2:dispatch_intra_process_subscription_callback |                        0
 ros2_caret:tilde_subscribe_added                  |                        0
 ros2_caret:tilde_subscribe                        |                        0
 ros2_caret:tilde_publisher_init                   |                        0
 ros2_caret:tilde_publish                          |                        0
 ros2_caret:sim_time                               |                        0
 ros2_caret:on_data_available                      |                        0
 ros2:message_construct                            |                        0
 ros2_caret:dds_bind_addr_to_addr                  |                        0
 ros2_caret:construct_static_executor              |                        0
 ros2:rclcpp_intra_publish                         |                        0
 ros2:rcl_lifecycle_transition                     |                        0
 ros2:rcl_lifecycle_state_machine_init             |                        0
 ros2_caret:callback_group_add_client              |                        0
 ros2_caret:add_callback_group_static_executor     |                        0
 ros2_caret:tilde_subscription_init                |                        0
```
