docs/design/trace_points/runtime_trace_points.md, before:

### Relationships of each runtime trace points

```mermaid
erDiagram

 callback_start{
 address callback
 bool is_intra_process
 }

 callback_end{
 address callback
 }

 message_construct{
 address original_message
 address constructed_message
 }

 dds_bind_addr_to_addr{
 address addr_from
 address addr_to
 }

 rclcpp_intra_publish{
 address publisher_handle
 address message
 uint64_t message_timestamp
 }

 dispatch_subscription_callback{
 address message
 address callback
 uint64_t source_timestamp
 uint64_t message_timestamp
 }

 dispatch_intra_process_subscription_callback{
 address message
 address callback
 uint64_t message_timestamp
 }

 rcl_publish{
 address publisher_handle
 address message
 }

 rclcpp_publish{
 address publisher_handle
 address message
 uint64_t message_timestamp
 }

 dds_write{
 address message
 }

 dds_bind_addr_to_stamp{
 address addr
 uint64_t source_stamp
 }

    rclcpp_intra_publish ||--|| dispatch_intra_process_subscription_callback: message_addr
    rclcpp_publish ||--|| rcl_publish: message_addr
    rcl_publish ||--|| dds_write: message_addr
    dds_write ||--|| dds_bind_addr_to_stamp: message_addr

    dds_bind_addr_to_stamp ||--|| dispatch_subscription_callback: source_timestamp


    dispatch_intra_process_subscription_callback ||--|| callback_start: callback
    dispatch_subscription_callback ||--|| callback_start: callback
    callback_start ||--|| callback_end: callback

```

Using addresses, thread id (`tid`) and source timestamp, CARET is able to identify a pair of message publish and corresponding subscription.
However, it's difficult to associate a certain message publish to corresponding callback execution because mapping between callback and publish cannot be obtained automatically.

`message_construct` and `dds_bind_addr_to_addr` are trace points to adapt to copying and converting instances for binding.

### Trace point definition

#### ros2:callback_start

[Built-in tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* callback
- bool is_intra_process

---

#### ros2:callback_end

[Built-in tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* callback

---

#### ros2:message_construct

[Extended tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* original_message
- void \* constructed_message

---

#### ros2:rclcpp_intra_publish

[Extended tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* publisher_handle
- void \* message
- uint64_t message_timestamp

---

#### ros2:dispatch_subscription_callback

[Extended tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* message
- void \* callback
- uint64_t source_timestamp
- uint64_t message_timestamp

---

#### ros2:dispatch_intra_process_subscription_callback

[Extended tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* message
- void \* callback
- uint64_t message_timestamp

---

#### ros2:rcl_publish

[Built-in tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* publisher_handle
- void \* message

---

#### ros2:rclcpp_publish

[Built-in tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* publisher_handle
- void \* message
- uint64_t message_timestamp

#### ros2_caret:dds_write

[Hooked tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* message

---

#### ros2_caret:dds_bind_addr_to_stamp

[Hooked tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* addr
- uint64_t source_stamp

---

#### ros2_caret:dds_bind_addr_to_addr

[Hooked tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* addr_from
- void \* addr_to

Commit message:

docs: added docs for runtime tracepoints  er-diagram and its definition (#191)
* added version info

Signed-off-by: yamasaki <114902604+ymski@users.noreply.github.com>

* added version info

Signed-off-by: yamasaki <114902604+ymski@users.noreply.github.com>

* minor update

Signed-off-by: yamasaki <114902604+ymski@users.noreply.github.com>

* minor update

Signed-off-by: yamasaki <114902604+ymski@users.noreply.github.com>

* minor update

Signed-off-by: yamasaki <114902604+ymski@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/design/trace_points/runtime_trace_points.md

Co-authored-by: takeshi-iwanari <takeshi.iwanari@tier4.jp>

* fix typo

Signed-off-by: yamasaki <114902604+ymski@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: yamasaki <114902604+ymski@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: takeshi-iwanari <takeshi.iwanari@tier4.jp>

docs/design/trace_points/runtime_trace_points.md, after:

### Relationships of each runtime trace points

```mermaid
erDiagram

 callback_start{
 address callback
 bool is_intra_process
 }

 callback_end{
 address callback
 }

 message_construct{
 address original_message
 address constructed_message
 }

 dds_bind_addr_to_addr{
 address addr_from
 address addr_to
 }

 rclcpp_intra_publish{
 address publisher_handle
 address message
 uint64_t message_timestamp
 }

 rmw_take{
 address rmw_subscription_handle
 address message
 uint64_t source_timestamp
 bool taken
 }

 dispatch_subscription_callback{
 address message
 address callback
 uint64_t source_timestamp
 uint64_t message_timestamp
 }

 dispatch_intra_process_subscription_callback{
 address message
 address callback
 uint64_t message_timestamp
 }

 rcl_publish{
 address publisher_handle
 address message
 }

 rclcpp_publish{
 address publisher_handle
 address message
 uint64_t message_timestamp
 }

 dds_write{
 address message
 }

 dds_bind_addr_to_stamp{
 address addr
 uint64_t source_stamp
 }

    rclcpp_intra_publish ||--|| dispatch_intra_process_subscription_callback: message_addr
    rclcpp_publish ||--|| rcl_publish: message_addr
    rcl_publish ||--|| dds_write: message_addr
    dds_write ||--|| dds_bind_addr_to_stamp: message_addr

    dds_bind_addr_to_stamp ||--|| dispatch_subscription_callback: source_timestamp

    dds_bind_addr_to_stamp ||--|| rmw_take: source_timestamp
    rmw_take ||--|| callback_start: tid
    dispatch_intra_process_subscription_callback ||--|| callback_start: callback
    dispatch_subscription_callback ||--|| callback_start: callback

    callback_start ||--|| callback_end: callback

```

Using addresses, thread id (`tid`) and source timestamp, CARET is able to identify a pair of message publish and corresponding subscription.
However, it's difficult to associate a certain message publish to corresponding callback execution because mapping between callback and publish cannot be obtained automatically.

`message_construct` and `dds_bind_addr_to_addr` are trace points to adapt to copying and converting instances for binding.

### Trace point definition

#### ros2:callback_start

[Built-in tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* callback
- bool is_intra_process

---

#### ros2:callback_end

[Built-in tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* callback

---

#### ros2:message_construct

[Extended tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* original_message
- void \* constructed_message

---

#### ros2:rclcpp_intra_publish

[Extended tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* publisher_handle
- void \* message
- uint64_t message_timestamp

---

#### ros2:dispatch_subscription_callback (before v0.4.9)

[Extended tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* message
- void \* callback
- uint64_t source_timestamp
- uint64_t message_timestamp

This tracepoint is no longer used from v0.4.10 onwards.

---

#### ros2:rmw_take (after v0.4.10)

[Built-in tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* rmw_subscription_handle
- void \* message
- int64_t \* source_timestamp
- bool \* taken

In CARET, this tracepoint is used to correctly link the `callback_start` to the `rclcpp_publish` that triggered the callback.
Until version 0.4.9, ros2:dispatch_subscription_callback was used to link `rclcpp_publish` and `callback_start` events.

---

#### ros2:dispatch_intra_process_subscription_callback

[Extended tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* message
- void \* callback
- uint64_t message_timestamp

---

#### ros2:rcl_publish

[Built-in tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* publisher_handle
- void \* message

---

#### ros2:rclcpp_publish

[Built-in tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* publisher_handle
- void \* message
- uint64_t message_timestamp

#### ros2_caret:dds_write

[Hooked tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* message

---

#### ros2_caret:dds_bind_addr_to_stamp

[Hooked tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* addr
- uint64_t source_stamp

---

#### ros2_caret:dds_bind_addr_to_addr

[Hooked tracepoints]

Sampled items

- void \* addr_from
- void \* addr_to
